---
layout: paper
title: "Generative Inverse Design of Metamaterials with Functional Responses by Interpretable Learning"
year: "2024"
shortref: "Chen et al. <i>arXiv</i> 2024"
nickname: chen2024rigid
journal: "arXiv"
volume: 
issue: 
pages: 
authors: "Wei (Wayne) Chen, Rachel Sun, Doksoo Lee, Carlos M. Portela, and Wei Chen"
image: /assets/images/papers/2024_rigid.png
redirect_from: 
fulltext: https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.00003
pdf: /assets/pdfs/599234a1-0cca-46d0-aa23-791645bb79ac.pdf
pdflink: 
github: https://github.com/DIGITLab23/RIGID
doi: 
category: paper
published: true
tags: [preprint]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

# Abstract 

Metamaterials with functional responses, such as wave-based responses or deformation-induced property variation under external stimuli, can exhibit varying properties or functionalities under different conditions. Herein, we aim at rapid inverse design of these metamaterials to meet target qualitative functional behaviors. This inverse problem is challenging due to its intractability and the existence of non-unique solutions. Past works mainly focus on deep-learning-based methods that are data-demanding, require time-consuming training and hyperparameter tuning, and are non-interpretable. To overcome these limitations, we propose the Random-forest-based Interpretable Generative Inverse Design (RIGID), a single-shot inverse design method to achieve the fast generation of metamaterial designs with on-demand functional behaviors. Unlike most existing methods, by exploiting the interpretability of the random forest, we eliminate the need to train an inverse model mapping responses to designs. Based on the likelihood of target satisfaction derived from the trained forward model, one can sample design solutions using Markov chain Monte Carlo methods. The RIGID method therefore functions as a generative model that captures the conditional distribution of satisfying solutions given a design target. We demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of RIGID on both acoustic and optical metamaterial design problems where only small datasets (less than 250 training samples) are available. Synthetic design problems are created to further illustrate and validate the mechanism of likelihood estimation in RIGID. This work offers a new perspective on solving on-demand inverse design problems, showcasing the potential for incorporating interpretable machine learning into generative design and eliminating its large data requirement.




# BibTeX Citation

```
@article{chen2024generative,
  title={Generative Inverse Design of Metamaterials with Functional Responses by Interpretable Learning},
  author={Chen, Wei W and Sun, Rachel and Lee, Doksoo and Portela, Carlos M and Chen, Wei},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.00003},
  year={2024}
}
```
